=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package MyTemplate;

    use Template::Caribou;

    with 'Template::Caribou::Files' => {
        dirs  => [ './my_templates/' ],
        intro => [ 'use 5.10.0;' ],
    };

    1;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A Caribou class consuming the C<Template::Caribou::Files> role
will automatically import
all template files (i.e., all files with a C<.bou> extension) under the given directories.

The names of the imported templates will be their path, relative to the
imported directories, without their extension. To take the example in the
L</SYNOPSIS>, if the content of C<my_templates/> is:

    ./foo.bou
    ./bar.bou

then the templates C<foo.bou> and C<bar.bou> will be created.

The template files themselves will be eval'ed in the context of
the parent class/namespace, and must return a coderef. E.g.,

    # file ./foo.bou

    # should be done in the class declaration, but
    # can be done here as well
    use Template::Caribou::Tags::HTML ':all';

    # likewise, would be better if added to
    # as a Template::Caribou::Files's intro
    use experimental 'signatures';

    sub ($self) {
        div {
            say 'this is foo';
            $self->bar;
        }
    }

=head1 ROLE PARAMETERS

=head2 dirs

The array ref of directories to scan for templates.

If not provided,
it defaults to the directory associated with the template class.
For example, for

    package MyTemplates::Foo;

    use Template::Caribou;

    with 'Template::Caribou::Files';

    1;

located at F<lib/MyTemplates/Foo.pm>, the default directory
will be F<lib/MyTemplates/Foo/>.

=head2 intro

Arrayref of lines to add at the beginning of all F<.bou> templates.

    package MyTemplates::Foo;

    use Template::Caribou;

    with 'Template::Caribou::Files' => {
        intro => [
            q{ use 5.10.0; },
            q{ use experimental 'signatures'; },
        ];
    };

=head1 METHODS

=method all_template_dirs

Returns a list of all template directories loaded by the
class (directories included by parent classes included).

=method file_intro

Returns the arrayref of the intro lines added to the F<.bou>
templates.
