=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package MyTemplate;

    use Template::Caribou;

    use Template::Caribou::Tags
        mytag => { 
            -as   => 'foo',
            tag   => 'p',
            class => 'baz'
        };

    template bar => sub {
        foo { 'hello' };
    };

    # <p class="baz">hello</p>
    print __PACKAGE__->new->bar;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides the tools to create tag libraries, or ad-hoc tags.

For pre-defined sets of tags, you may want to look at L<Template::Caribou::Tags::HTML>,
L<Template::Caribou::Tags::HTML::Extended>, and friends.

=head2 Core functionality

Tag functions are created using the C<render_tag> function. For example:

    package MyTemplate;

    use Template::Caribou;

    use Template::Caribou::Tags qw/ render_tag /;

    sub foo(&) { render_tag( 'foo', shift ) }

    # renders as '<foo>hi!</foo>'
    template main => sub {
        foo { "hi!" };
    };   

=head2 Creating ad-hoc tags

Defining a function and using C<render_tag> is a little bulky and, typically, will only be used when creating
tag libraries. In most cases, 
the C<my_tag> export keyword can be used to create custom tags. For example, the
previous C<foo> definition could have been done this way:

    package MyTemplate;

    use Template::Caribou;

    use Template::Caribou::Tags
        mytag => { tag => 'foo' };

    # renders as '<foo>hi!</foo>'
    template main => sub {
        foo { 
            "hi!";
        };
    };   
    


=head1 EXPORTS

By default, nothing is exported.
The functions C<render_tag> and C<attr> can be exported by this module. 

Custom tag functions can also be defined via the export keyword C<mytag>.

C<mytag> accepts the following arguments:

=over

=item tag => $name

Tagname that will be used. If not specified, defaults to C<div>.

=item -as => $name

Name under which the tag function will be exported. If not specified, defaults to the 
value of the C<tag> argument. At least one of C<-as> or C<tag> must be given explicitly.

=item groom => sub { }

Grooming function for the tag block. See C<render_tag> for more details.

=item class => $classes

Default value for the 'class' attribute of the tag.

    use Template::Caribou::Tags 
                    # <div class="main">...</div>
        mytag => { -as => 'main_div', class => 'main' };


=item attr => \%attributes

Default set of attributes for the tag.

    use Template::Caribou::Tags 
                    # <input disabled="disabled">...</input>
        mytag => { -as => 'disabled_input', tag => 'input', attr => { disabled => 'disabled' } };

=back


=function attr( $name => $value )

Accesses the attributes of a tag within its block.

If provided an even number of parameters, sets the attributes to those values.


    div {
        attr class => 'foo', 
             style => 'text-align: center';

        "hi there";
    };

    # <div class="foo" style="text-align: center">hi there</div>
    
Many calls to C<attr> can be done within the same block.

    div {
        attr class => 'foo';
        attr style => 'text-align: center';

        "hi there";
    };

    # <div class="foo" style="text-align: center">hi there</div>
  
To add to an attribute instead of replacing its value, prefix the attribute name
with a plus sign.

    div {
        attr class    => 'foo';

        attr '+class' => 'bar';

        "hi there";
    };

    # <div class="foo bar">hi there</div>
   
The value of an attribute can also be queried by passing a single argument to C<attr>.

    div { 
        ...; # some complex stuff here

        my $class = attr 'class';

        attr '+style' => 'text-align: center' if $class =~ /_centered/;

        ...;
    }
    

=function render_tag( $tag_name, $inner_block, \&groom, $indent )

Prints out a tag in a template. The C<$inner_block> is a string or coderef
holding the content of the tag. 

If the C<$inner_block> is empty, the tag will be of the form
C<< <foo /> >>.

    render_tag( 'div', 'hello' );         #  <div>hello</div>

    render_tag( 'div', sub { 'hello' } )  # <div>hello</div>

    render_tag( 'div', '' );              #  <div />

An optional grooming function can be passed. If it is, an hash holding the 
attributes of the tag, and its inner content will be passed to it as C<%_> and C<$_>, respectively.

   # '<div>the current time is Wed Nov 25 13:18:33 2015</div>'
   render_tag( 'div', 'the current time is DATETIME', sub {
        s/DATETIME/scalar localtime/eg;
   });

   # '<div class="mine">foo</div>'
   render_tag( 'div', 'foo', sub { $_{class} = 'mine' } )

An optional C<$indent> argument can also be given. If explicitly set to
C<false>, the tag won't be indented even when the template
is in pretty-print mode. Used for tags where whitespaces
are significant or would alter
the presentation (e.g., C<pre> or C<emphasis>). Defaults to C<true>.


=cut
